One of the biggest problems of writers
whether beginner or experienced
is how to pinpoint exactly what
they want to say in the play in a word or two.
People often ask,
"What's the premise of the play?"
It's fine if the premise
is clear to you.
But if you can't explain
what the premise is
something must be wrong.
Again, it's difficult to set
a formula on how to write,
and premise denotes
a lot of things.
Some people teach premise
as the overall theme.
So you wonder what it is.
Is it love? freedom?
It's the theme,
so like theme of justice?
Something like that.
Lajos Egri is, of course, most noted
for his works on playwriting.
He articulated the concept of premise
as a guide for the writer
so that she doesn't lose sight
of her play's flow and direction,
or the story or arc of her play.
And he separated
the three elements
on how to form a play.
The first element is the character.
The second element
is the conflict the character faces.
Again, we go back
to objective and obstacle
which would naturally be concluded
by the end of the play.
Which prevailed?
The obstacle or the character?
The premise is that simple.
So Lajos cites as example
the premise about...
selfishness
leading to one’s own grave.
The selfishness
will be manifested
by the character
and the play will show how
she digs herself a grave.
According to Egri,
Macbeth followed
such a premise.
It's clear that the character's
extreme selfishness
helped him reach
the peak of his power,
but his selfishness
was also his downfall.
So whatever part of the story
that strays from that point
could be removed.
Even if you read
the entire play today,
of course, there are
some parts that stray.
Like the witches' game,
where the witches have a long ritual.
If you're the director,
you could probably remove that
since you can't align it
with the main direction of the premise.
True love overcomes death.
It's like West Side Story, right?
So 'true love' reveals the characters,
'overcomes' reveals the conflict,
and 'death' reveals the conclusion.
When you formulate it,
it seems simple.
But when you dig deep into the story,
that's when all the details come out.
That's when you can expand it
since it's not all about love.
To show love,
you have to show the feud
between the two families, right?
So you will also have
to expand on that feud.
And you will have to show
how love overcomes death.
Big words emerge.
But most of the time,
you’re not able to pinpoint
that out from the beginning.
In fact,
I'm almost inclined to say
that even when you’ve finished the play
you probably can’t word it
exactly as such.
Yet you feel it's over.
What I mean is
not all plays are like that.
Some plays have
different episodes
and you can't really set it,
but it's important for
the writer to say
the play's direction
in one sentence.
If that's not clear,
then it means the play's
direction still isn't clear.
Now when should it be clear to you?
That's where we have our differences.
Others need a clear premise first
before actually writing.
I'm not like that.
Like I said,
I could be moved
by a character's life and
I could just follow her.
I may not know
the basic premise yet
so in the course of writing it,
that’s when its conclusion
becomes clear to me.
The premise could become
clearer in the middle
because the end
is still unknown to me.
That's what writers
usually go through.
Or I know how it ends
but the character's journey seems off.
But I've never written a play
where I had to
change the character
because she couldn't
get to the conclusion.
It has never come to that.
Your choice of character
is usually
what'll give you a clue
in terms of the
direction she'll take.
There are cases
while writing your play
where you think
this is the protagonist
because you started with her.
But the other main character
seems more dramatic,
the other character's story
seems more interesting
instead of the protagonist.
This happens probably because
when you chose that character
you thought she'd be the one
who'll move the story forward to the end.
But actually this other character
might be the one
to push towards the conclusion.
You could adjust to that character
to get the story further
- Is it like a hypothesis
where you have an assumption
and then you test it while writing it.
Is it like your guide, until later on,
when you’re able to prove it or not?
It could be like that.
Or you could be done
with the story,
but in order to check if the story's
direction is going somewhere
can you formulate it
like a hypothesis?
Because if you can't
formulate it, it could mean
there’s something not quite right,
in terms of the logical argument of the play.
The premise isn’t the only
important thing for me as a writer.
The premise isn't the be all and end all.
It doesn't mean that
when I've written my premise
and followed it,
my play's already good.
It's not like that.
It's more of a guide.
Like a ruler
guiding you to the moon.
Formulating a premise is like that.
Anything that goes against that
won’t lead to the moon.
But what if that’s better?
So change the premise.
That’s possible.
Whatever it is,
when the direction you want
for your play becomes clear,
you should know it at least
before you finish writing.
It doesn't have to be done
in the beginning.
It doesn't mean
it should all be figured out
The play's direction is part
of the process you have to identify.
It doesn’t need
to be in the beginning,
it could be near the end
or in the middle.
where you know more
about the character,
know more about her struggles.
That's the significance of the premise.
Especially when you're lost.
When you have so many characters
that you don't know who to focus on
and what story to highlight.